Welcome to JW Broadcasting. We're so happy you could join us.
In the next hour, we'll learn why putting Jehovah's will ahead of our own interests,
improves our life, and protects us from harm.
We all appreciate being recognized by others.
In an interview, we'll see why recognition from Jehovah brings the most joy.
Are you a young person looking to start a career?
If so, you'll appreciate learning how two young witnesses found work to support themselves and their ministry.
And we'll see how husbands and wives can work as a team to increase the love and peace in marriage.
This is the March 2025 edition of JW Broadcasting.
Our theme this month is keep seeking great things for Jehovah.
It's based on some powerful advice that Jehovah gave to a man named Berrick.
Who was Berrick? What can his example teach us?
And how can the Divine Council he received help us today?
Let's find out.
Berrick was a faithful servant of Jehovah.
He appears in the Bible book of Jeremiah about the year 625 BCE.
Let's start our journey by reading Jeremiah chapter 45 verse 1.
This is the word that Jeremiah, the prophet, spoke to Berrick,
the son of Nariah when he wrote in a book,
these words dictated by Jeremiah in the fourth year of Jehoyakim, son of Josiah, the king of Judah.
Berrick served as Jeremiah's personal secretary.
The two worked closely together for some 18 years,
including after the destruction of Jerusalem in 607 BCE.
That was certainly a special privilege of service during a very challenging time.
But why did Jeremiah need an assistant?
For some 23 years, Jeremiah had been conveying a message of judgment and hope to God's people in Judah.
In the year 625 BCE, it seems that Jeremiah had been barred from the temple area where Jehovah's message was to be read.
At that time, Jehovah asked Jeremiah to write his warnings in a scroll.
That's where Berrick, a scribe or a secretary, comes into the picture.
He wrote in a scroll all the words that Jehovah had spoken through Jeremiah up until that time,
23 years worth.
The following year, when the time came for the contents of that scroll to be read aloud in the temple courtyard,
Jeremiah asked Berrick to deliver the message.
Again, Berrick did just so.
What happened next?
When the princes of Judah heard what Berrick had done, they wanted to hear the message firsthand.
So Berrick read it out loud again.
As soon as they heard it, the account says they looked at one another in dread.
They told Berrick, we must certainly tell the king all these words.
Before doing so, they warned Berrick, go and hide yourselves, you and Jeremiah, and do not let anyone know where you are.
Wicked King Jehoiikum was hot with anger.
He burned the scroll and ordered that Jeremiah and Berrick be arrested.
Now, let's pause and think.
From what we've considered so far, what can we learn from Berrick?
First, he was humble.
Many scholars believe that he belonged to a prominent scribal family.
Yet when the invitation came to help Jeremiah, Berrick proceeded to do according to all that Jeremiah the prophet had commanded him.
Like you, brothers and sisters, Berrick was happy to support Jehova's work and to do whatever was asked of him.
He did not let his family status or personal goals distract him.
Because he was humble, he put Jehova's will first in his life.
Berrick also demonstrated endurance.
Do you think putting 23 years worth of divine messages in writing took some time?
Of course.
Berrick didn't have a modern tool such as a smartphone tablet or computer.
It was a lot of manual work.
And imagine Berrick's shock when the king burned up the first scroll.
That was Jehova's message.
That was the scroll that Berrick had written by hand.
Hours of work up in smoke.
Jeremiah, chapter 36, verse 32 steps.
Jeremiah then took another scroll and gave it to Berrick.
And at Jeremiah's dictation, he wrote on it all the words of the scroll that King Jehoya came of Judah had burned in the fire.
And many more words like those were added.
Like Berrick, we too need endurance to stick to our sacred work when there are challenges.
Consider, too, Berrick's courage.
He must have known how dangerous it would be to work with Jeremiah.
Earlier, the same king that burned up the scroll killed another prophet of Jehova, Eurygia, by the sword.
But Berrick fearlessly used his professional skills and contacts to support Jehova's prophet.
There's so much we can learn from this God-fearing man who demonstrated humility, endurance, and courage.
Jehova loved Berrick, and so do we.
Of course, Berrick, like us, confronted negative thoughts and feelings.
There was one challenge that could have cost him dearly.
What was it?
Let's continue the reading in Jeremiah, chapter 45, verses 2 and 3.
And please note, Jehova's personal interest in Berrick.
Jeremiah, 45, 2 and 3 says.
This is what Jehova, the God of Israel, says concerning you, Berrick.
You have said, whoa to me, for Jehova has added grief to my pain.
I am weary from my groaning, and I have found no resting place.
Why was Berrick feeling like that?
Was he getting tired of his assignment?
Or perhaps the circumstances in which he had to perform it?
Let's keep reading, verses 4 and 5.
You should say to him, this is what Jehova says.
Look, what I have built up, I am tearing down.
And what I have planted, I am uprooting, the entire land.
But you are seeking great things for yourself.
Stop seeking such things.
For I am about to bring a calamity on all flesh, declares Jehova.
And wherever you may go, I will grant you your life as a spoil.
What reason did Jehova give for Berrick's feelings?
It was not the assignment itself or even his circumstances.
In verse 5, Jehova said, you are seeking great things for yourself.
Think about that.
It was Berrick's own view of what seemed great or most important.
For a time, he was focused on seeking great things for himself.
What do you think those great things could have been?
Was it a desire for fame or prestige?
Was he sensing that his support for God's profit was putting at risk his position and career?
Or did the great things have to do with getting more money?
Property or some material possessions?
We don't know.
But Berrick knew what they were and Jehova's counsel was clear.
Stop seeking such things.
It seems Berrick took Jehova's counsel to heart.
I imagine him reasoning something like this.
Jehova knows my thoughts and feelings.
Have I really been seeking great things for myself?
It's true.
Jehova's always right.
My desires got the better of me and I was so distressed.
But Jehova's kindly telling me, Berrick, be realistic.
A divine judgment is coming.
Everything that seems so stable will be uprooted.
Material things.
Property, money, or a prominent career, it's all temporary.
Seeking those things is dangerous.
Jehova wants me and others to survive the common calamity.
And that's what I want.
I need to get back to seeking great things for Jehova.
Well, that's just a possibility of how Berrick might have been thinking.
But did he accept and follow the counsel?
Yes.
During the Babylonian siege of Jerusalem about 17 years later,
Berrick appears again in the inspired record supporting Jeremiah.
And though many others died during the catastrophic destruction of Jerusalem,
Berrick and Jeremiah survived.
Berrick's humble response to Jehova's counsel saved his life
and such a response to divine counsel can do the same for us.
I'm sure as you think more about Berrick,
you'll see other ways we can benefit from his example.
But let's briefly discuss one particular challenge
that some of us might be facing right now
and how Berrick's experience can help.
The challenge?
Being balanced while providing materially for ourselves and our families.
In today's world, many people are seeking great things for themselves,
as they pursue secular education and secular work.
Many believe that the key to success and the key to there
and their family's happiness involves money and getting more material things
or a resting place in this system of things.
Such thinking could influence us.
If you're a family head, consider Chibisa.
He's a brother in Malawi,
who along with his wife and seven children were doing well spiritually.
However, at one point, they faced financial problems.
At times, there was not enough money to buy food for each day.
How stressful.
Like many others, Chibisa decided to go to South Africa to find work.
That was a personal decision.
But was it wise?
Looking back, Chibisa said this.
This affected me spiritually
because I did not know the language.
I was unable to preach and I did not benefit from the meetings.
Being so far from my family caused me to neglect my responsibility as a family head.
As a result, my family grew weak spiritually,
and we all missed each other very much.
I realized that I had made a wrong decision going abroad.
My conscience started to trouble me greatly.
My parents must also make personal decisions about secular education for your children.
Naturally, you want them to get a good education.
But you have to think carefully about potential dangers.
For example, in some countries,
parents send their young children away to boarding schools.
The March 15, 1997 issue of the Watchtower discussed the scriptural principles involved,
and related a number of experiences highlighting the dangers.
A brother named Clement said that before going away to boarding school,
he loved the truth and enjoyed participating in the ministry,
in family worship, and at meetings.
However, he said,
Once I went into boarding school at the age of 14,
I left the truth completely.
Throughout the five years I spent in boarding school,
I never attended meetings.
As a result of bad company, I got involved with drugs, smoking, and heavy drinking.
Let's consider one more situation.
You younger Christians approaching adulthood must make decisions involving education and employment.
There may be many choices,
but which ones will help you live up to your dedication to Jehovah?
One sister said this,
As a baptized witness, I had read and heard about the dangers of pursuing university education,
but I dismissed such warnings.
I thought that counsel did not apply to me.
Well, our sister made her personal choice in the matter,
but was it a wise one?
She continues,
Studying for my courses took so much time and effort
that I was too busy to linger in prayer to Jehovah the way I used to,
too exhausted to enjoy Bible discussions with others,
and too tired to prepare well for the meetings.
Thankfully, once I realized that being immersed in higher education was damaging my relationship with Jehovah,
I knew I had to stop, and I did.
Of what do these real life examples remind us?
In Satan's system of things, we will face challenges that test our determination to put Jehovah's will first in our lives.
Like Barrick, personal desires could distract us.
If that ever happens, we need to take quick action to correct our viewpoint as did Barrick.
Happily, through the Bible and spiritual instruction from the faithful slave,
Jehovah helps us make better choices in personal areas of life,
such as those involving secular education and secular work.
At Psalm 32-8, he promises,
I will give you insight and instruct you in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you.
We are wise to seek out such advice by doing research,
by talking to mature Christians, and then applying such counsel.
Chabisa did that after moving to South Africa, his conscience started bothering him,
and he remembered the example of Barrick.
Chabisa said this,
Barrick may have wanted to pursue material riches as I had.
When he was helped, he returned.
I decided then to put Jehovah in first place instead of searching for material things,
so I started to make changes to go home and help my family spiritually.
When I left South Africa and reached the border of Malawi, I felt great happiness in my heart,
and I am still happy.
Studying the Bible has helped me.
We still encounter financial problems,
but I remember that in Satan's world, there is nowhere we can go and have no problems.
My family is progressing spiritually,
and this makes me very happy because my relationship with Jehovah is strong.
Like Barrick, Chabisa was humble and courageous,
and we know those same qualities characterize you, brothers and sisters.
So when Jehovah, our loving father, gives us timely advice as he did to his close friend Barrick,
let's take it to heart.
Let's do whatever it takes to make sure we and our families continue seeking first the Kingdom and God's Righteousness,
and never forget, as we continue to seek great things for Jehovah,
he'll continue to do great things for us and our families.
Yes, it's his blessing that makes us truly rich and he adds no pain with it.
Have you ever felt unseen in a Theocratic assignment,
or forgotten about when you're no longer in it?
If so, you'll appreciate how a brother named Avanash,
along with the Caterl family, adjusted their thinking.
Note how they found joy in seeking recognition from Jehovah rather than from others.
I worked in an office in the financial district.
I enjoyed everything about working there,
passing these tall skyscrapers, institutions with big names in terms of what I wanted from life.
At that time, it was great.
Spiritually, it was not the best at all.
You have to make yourself stand out, that really affected my personality.
I didn't even realise it at the time.
I was pioneering and I decided to apply for Bethel and was accepted.
And my assignment was to do cleaning.
And from my background, that kind of work,
it was something that was looked down on.
It's not something you would choose to do.
I was used to an environment where if you did well,
you could move to the next step and you'd be recognised for it.
And this was the case for me that I derived so much value from these external things,
these privileges, and being set apart from others.
I thrived on that commendation, both at work and in the congregation.
So when you don't get it, then you feel lost a little bit.
Other brothers were getting more recognition.
And that just played in my head a little bit.
The spiritual environment in Bethel has taught me and is teaching me
that our value is nothing to do with the privileges that we enjoy.
But when we feed off the recognition from men,
it's almost like we're chasing the next,
you know, the next compliment or the next praise.
You can always feel like you're chasing happiness.
But you know, switching my thinking to thinking about Jehovah's recognition,
it gives you more peace and it's more sustainable.
And it really helped me to see that no matter what circumstances I'm in,
I can be happy, I can be joyful.
He's been good moulding.
Sandy and I got married in 2003.
Sandy was pioneering back then and I was happy to support her.
Then we found out that we were expecting a baby.
We were really excited.
I still was hoping that after I had the baby that I would be able to continue,
pioneering, that was the plan anyway.
We just thought to ourselves, this is how we can grow them out.
They can serve Jehovah, go to Bethel, all of the stuff that you want your child to do.
One day, very late on in the pregnancy, I received a phone call from Sandy.
She was rushed into hospital for an emergency cesarean and everything changed.
We're so glad that he made it through.
Thankfully, he survived.
Later on, we found out that he had severe brain damage.
We had to learn how to operate medical machinery.
We had to learn what syringe was.
We had to learn so much stuff that we'd never even had to think about before.
I used to feel like why was our path to get to the new world harder than other brothers and sisters?
I felt isolated and lonely because I felt that no one understood what I was going through
and what it felt like.
No one around me was in my situation.
We really enjoyed the assembly.
We'd sit near the front, sit where we could focus on what was going on and all of a sudden.
Eden's born. We're at the back.
We're right at the back.
It was very, very hard to accept that although I wanted to be somewhere,
a certain time spiritually, it just wasn't going to happen because I was in a completely different situation.
Eden now has a little sister, Angel, who is also a blessing from Jehovah.
Although our goals in life changed and we might not be able to do as much as we used to do,
we know that Jehovah is really appreciative on everything that we do.
And as a family, we've set a goal of being out in the ministry together at least once a month.
It takes a lot to get Eden ready for his lot of preparation and a lot of medication
and there's a lot of hidden things that the congregation don't see.
We know that Jehovah has seen us struggling in the evenings.
He's looking there at the sleepless night.
He can help you to cope, to be happy with small blessings.
I don't do it every day but I try to write down what I'm grateful for, what Jehovah has given me.
And this really helps me not only to be focused but to have more appreciative prayers to Jehovah
about what he's doing for me now.
We know that Jehovah values our family.
Isn't it comforting to know Jehovah recognizes our household service,
even when it feels like others don't?
Many of us need to work to support ourselves,
but finding the type of work that allows us to serve Jehovah whole soul may be challenging.
Let's see how Bible principles influence the career decisions of two young publishers.
Why was it difficult to choose a career?
Most of my family have a university degree.
Some are lawyers, engineers, accountants, and so on.
So they expected me to go to university as well.
They told me, we don't have a doctor in the family yet.
We think you should study medicine.
When I was 16, I was about to leave high school.
Many of my schoolmates were planning to study at university and would say things like,
I want to go to this school, which one are you going to?
I felt a lot of pressure to get a higher education.
My teachers told me that I needed to continue my studies if I really wanted to make money.
I wanted to be a teacher, but there were so much pressure from my family
to study something that would allow me to have a higher salary.
There were times when I felt overwhelmed because of the pressure.
Even after I graduated from high school, a teacher contacted me to make sure
that I was planning to go to university, and in his words,
actually become someone in this world.
I started a six-year psychology degree at university.
And at the same time, I was studying for a teacher certificate on the weekends.
And on top of all of that, I was working part-time.
I was trying to do everything.
What helped you make a good decision?
I spoke with my mom about what I should do.
She helped me to think about some of the dangers I would be exposed to at university.
Things that could endanger me in a spiritual sense.
After about two years, it became clear that I couldn't continue with such a busy routine.
I needed to make a change.
I remembered some advice I got from a friend.
He had studied to become an accountant when he was young, but now he sells chilies.
He jokingly said, so now I'm counting chilies.
So I guess you could say that it is what I studied.
He explained that many people end up in jobs that have nothing to do with their university degree.
Philippians 110 helped me.
It says that we should make sure of the more important things.
I knew that finding a job was important.
But it was more important that I had time for Jehovah.
I've always loved Jehovah's promise at Matthew 633,
where he says that he will make sure we have what we need
if we keep seeking for seeking to mend his righteousness.
I had already seen this promise come true in my life.
So I trusted that Jehovah would continue to provide for me.
I knew that if I studied at university,
I would be losing valuable time during my youth,
time that I could be using for Jehovah.
Sometimes we have many different options in front of us,
or we know that we need to adjust our course.
That's when looking to Bible principles can help us to choose the right path.
My father has a barber shop, and he offered to teach me how to be a barber.
My parents told me, people will always need a haircut.
So even though I knew I wouldn't be making millions as a barber,
it was work that would always be in demand.
I decided to leave university halfway through my degree
and look for part-time teaching work.
During that time, I prayed so much, asking Jehovah to bless my decision.
What benefits have come from your decisions?
On my own boss, I work in a barber shop
and also travel to people's homes and give them haircuts.
I have the freedom to decide the days and hours that I work.
Jehovah answered my prayers.
I was able to find part-time work teaching at a school,
which allows me to be in full-time service, along with my husband.
Because of the flexibility I have with my work,
I enjoy opportunities to participate in construction projects for the organization.
I've seen clearly that by focusing on what's most important,
Jehovah has blessed me.
I continue to see the fulfillment of Matthew 6.33 in my life.
Jehovah has always provided what I needed.
If you're having trouble choosing the right type of work,
consider talking to others about how they chose jobs
that allow them to actively serve Jehovah.
Most important, pray.
Share your feelings with Jehovah.
Tell him about your needs, goals, and preferences.
Remember, no one is more interested in providing for you,
materially and spiritually, than Jehovah.
Among those who benefit from turning to Jehovah for direction are missionaries.
This episode of our History and Motion shows how Jehovah has used
self-sacrificing missionaries to spearhead the global preaching work
to the most distant parts of the earth.
You will be witnesses of me to the most distant part of the earth.
Nearly 2,000 years ago, Jesus laid the groundwork for true missionary service.
Since then, how have others answered the call to service a missionary?
That's the subject of this episode of Our History and Motion.
In the first century, Paul, Barnabas, Mark, and others
traveled extensively to bring the good news to people
and rejoiced as they saw them respond.
Jehovah's people have continued this mission today
with the same zeal, tireless dedication and joy.
C.T. Russell and J.F. Rutherford were missionaries themselves.
Both traveled to distant lands such as the Philippines,
France, Greece, Egypt, Israel, and India.
Their goal to reach as many as possible
as the wonderful kingdom message.
Their fine example led others to reach out and do the same.
In 1922, William R. Brown, who had been preaching throughout the Caribbean,
wrote to Brother Rutherford,
I have given a witness throughout the majority of the Caribbean islands.
Should I go over them again?
Brother Rutherford's reply, proceed to Sierra Leone, West Africa.
And that's just what he did.
Brother Brown and his family served 27 years in West Africa,
always emphasizing the importance of the Bible,
which aptly earned him the name, Bible Brown.
When looking back over many decades of faithful service,
how did Brother Brown feel?
He said, what a joy it is to see men and women becoming obedient to the good news of God's kingdom.
It is one of the highest privileges that can be offered to a human creature
to be an ambassador of Jehovah.
In July 1926, George Wright and Edwin Skinner
left London on a boat headed to Bombay, India, now known as Mumbai.
There, these brothers set up a small branch office to oversee the preaching work.
To spread the kingdom message, the two brothers would split up.
One traveled deep into the land,
while the other stayed back to care for the branch office matters.
By 1938, a great witness had been given all throughout the land.
Twenty-four congregations were established.
Literature was translated and distributed.
Look, meetings were arranged, and the good news was even delivered by radio.
But then came World War II,
and in over fifty nations, the work of Jehovah's Witnesses was restricted.
The door appeared to be closing for accepting missionaries in many parts of the earth.
From a human standpoint,
it could have seemed wise to pause the missionary work.
But Jehovah knew better.
In September 1942, Nathan North, full of faith,
proposed the establishment of a school to train missionaries.
The first class of the Watchtower Bible College of Gilead
began on a winter day in upstate New York in 1943.
And the timing turned out to be just right, as World War II ended.
The door began opening back up,
and a global opportunity awaited future missionaries.
Looking back, Gilead has had a huge impact on our worldwide growth.
For example, in 1949,
Japan reported less than ten local publishers.
Shortly thereafter, in 1950, five sisters,
graduates of the eleventh class of Gilead, arrived in Japan.
Among them was Lois Dyer, another missionary.
Over the next thirty years, Lois would travel all throughout Japan,
bringing the good news to people that were hungry for it.
By 1980, Lois watched the publishers in Japan
grow from twelve to over fifty-two thousand.
How rewarding!
In 2024, some 214,000 publishers preach the good news in Japan.
Gilead has trained over 9,500 zealous kingdom proclaimers
assigned to over 200 lands and island groups.
I often think about Gilead.
The effect it has now, not only on the field,
and those that are going off in the missionary field,
but the brothers as a whole.
They have gone into these countries,
and they have acclimated themselves.
They are a part of that country.
They're just as much at home there,
those that have been there for a while as the natives.
And everyone that has had a part in it,
either as a missionary or those of parents that have sent them off,
they're never going to forget that.
And I think that is a legacy that will continue forever.
The opportunities for missionary work remain greater than ever.
For example, many graduates from the School for Kingdom evangelizers
are assigned as field missionaries.
Jehovah is still holding the door wide open.
Hundreds of classes are held each year all around the world.
Have you considered applying?
The exciting adventure of missionary service continues today
as thousands make themselves available in imitation
of the greatest missionary, Jesus Christ.
See you next time on Our History in Motion.
Would you like to imitate the examples of missionaries?
If so, talk to an elder in your congregation about your desire,
start pioneering, and later apply to the School for Kingdom evangelizers
if you qualify.
Worship extends beyond the ministry into our personal lives,
particularly within the home.
If you're married, note how you and your mate can continue working together
as a team to maintain a happy marriage.
With so much that needs to get done in a day, every day,
married couples can struggle to work together.
This often leads to separate game plants.
To truly be one flesh, a couple needs to work together as a team.
And every team needs to have a goal.
Your goal should be to have a loving relationship,
not just a lasting one.
When marriage mates aren't teammates,
disagreements can turn into fierce competition to illustrate this point.
Imagine arguments are like a couple playing tennis against each other.
Only one person can win.
But if you change your mindset from thinking what do I want,
to what do we want, then you're thinking as a team,
and you're able to overcome the problem and win together.
Once you have the team mindset, how do you work together as a team practically?
Ask Jehovah God for his guidance,
and to bless your efforts to work together on the issue at hand.
As you pray, talk to Jehovah about your shared desire to have a happier marriage.
Talk to each other.
Discuss your strong points, and where you're not so strong.
And see where you can better support your partner.
Create a plan together that you can both work toward when you think what do we want instead of what do I want.
And you pray.
Discuss your roles, and make a plan.
You can have a happy marriage as a team.
Take a moment.
Pause the video, and ask each other these three questions.
Remember, share your honest feelings,
and openly express how you both feel.
We can be confident that when we do things Jehovah's way,
we'll experience the best results possible.
While we always aim to support Jehovah's will,
could we impede it?
In the following morning worship,
hear Brother Splain comment on how this could happen.
Now this morning, I'm going to focus on the first words of our text.
It says, the word of God is alive and exerts power.
The word of God is alive.
Now there's no question that this text does apply to God's written word, the Bible.
But Jehovah had a word, God's word existed,
even before the art of writing was invented.
Now how long before we don't know?
At least as long as Jesus has been alive.
Before Jesus was alive, of course, Jehovah had no one to speak to.
But now with the creation of Jesus, he and his son could communicate.
Now what is God's word?
We've said that it's the expression of his purpose.
And that means that when Jehovah says he's going to do something,
it's as good as done.
And nothing and no one can stand in the way.
But sometimes with the best of intentions,
we could actually get in the way of a decision or a project
that Jehovah approves of.
Now we have an example of this in an event that happened in the lives of Esau and Jacob.
Now who was getting in the way in that story?
The faithful man, Isaac.
After 20 years of marriage, Isaac and Rebecca finally had two sons, Esau and Jacob.
But we know that Esau was the first born.
And as the watchtower pointed out this week,
in patriarchal times at the death of the father,
why the first born took the lead in the family.
He was the one who conducted family worship.
And he served as a sort of priest.
And that's why the Bible speaks of priests being present at Mount Sinai
before the Levitical priesthood was set up.
But Jehovah had told Rebecca that Jacob was going to have the first born's position.
We don't know if he told Isaac.
But he did tell Rebecca that Jacob was going to have the first born's position.
So the word had gone out.
The expression of God's purpose had gone out.
Jacob would take precedence over Esau.
Could anyone challenge that?
Now when you consider what God's purpose was,
Jacob was the right choice, wasn't it?
Because what was God's purpose?
It was to set up a nation of worshipers.
Those who were going to worship Jehovah,
now between Esau and Jacob,
who was most likely to conduct family worship
with his children, his offspring, certainly Jacob.
Now for the first 15 years of their lives,
Esau and Jacob could probably have heard Abraham talk about the promise that God had given him,
that all of the families of the earth were going to be blessed by means of his offspring.
And no doubt Jacob realized what a beautiful privilege it would be to share in the fulfillment of that purpose.
While Rebecca loved the one Jehovah loved most, Jacob.
Isaac loved Esau.
Even after Esau had married out of the truth twice.
Well, some in full-time service have a brother or sister who isn't doing very well in the truth,
and yet he or she is the favorite.
Go figure.
Even parents in the truth don't always love the one Jehovah loves most.
Now one day, Isaac had a conversation with Esau.
And it's interesting, look at Genesis chapter 27.
We're going to read verses 1 to 4, and there are a couple of lessons here that we're going to consider.
Genesis chapter 27.
We're going to read verses 1 to 4.
It says,
Now when Isaac was old and his eyes were too weak to see,
he called Esau, his older son to him and said,
My son.
He replied, Here I am.
And he went on to say, I have now grown old.
I do not know the day of my death.
So at this time, it take please your weapons, your quiver and your bow,
and go out to the field and hunt some wild game for me.
Then make the kind of tasty dish that I'm fond of, and bring it to me.
Then I will eat it so that I may bless you before I die.
Before I die.
So Isaac was on his deathbed, right?
Wrong.
If you do the math, you see that Isaac lived for 43 years after he had that last meal.
But we can understand why he felt that he was on his last legs because he was blind.
He couldn't do what he used to do.
And so he probably thought that his life was over, and that could happen to any one of us.
You know if we're in constant pain or we're crippled?
Well, we might think we're finished.
So here's the lesson.
No matter what your limitations are, don't give up on life.
Find out what you can do and then do what you can.
The dead can't praise Jehovah, but you can as long as you're alive.
And even if you get to the point where all you can do is keep your integrity
and praise Jehovah, do that.
Don't give up.
But now let's get back to the point we started with.
And that is, with the best of intentions, we could get in the way of Jehovah's purpose.
Now Isaac was determined to bless Jesus and make Jacob his servant.
Isaac was getting in the way.
He was getting in the way of Jehovah's purpose.
It seems that later Isaac realized his mistake because when Jacob was leaving to find a wife,
Jacob was told, God Almighty will give you the blessing of Abraham.
Isn't that beautiful?
God Almighty will give you the blessing of Abraham.
Tells you what kind of a man Isaac was.
He was a spiritual man.
Yes, he loved Esau more than Jacob.
And yes, he wanted Esau to have the blessing.
But when Jehovah's will became clear,
Isaac submitted.
The Apostle Paul wrote, by faith, Isaac blessed Esau and Jacob.
Well, now the application.
Would it be possible for us to get in the way when Jehovah decides to do something
or when he approves a project that maybe we don't agree with?
It could happen.
The organization suggests a new way to carry out the preaching work.
We tell our service group, that'll never work here.
Maybe it'll work somewhere else, but not here. We're different.
What about our building projects?
Ramapo? Why do we need Ramapo?
Armageddon's coming.
In the late 40s, when the decision was made to expand world headquarters at 124 Columbia Heights,
a few of the brothers took a dim view.
Why spend the time and the money so close to the end?
Then in 1953, at the business meeting of the Watchtower Society,
Brother Noah read a letter from a sister.
Now, just for context, this is 1953.
And in those days, as I will recall,
some thought that Armageddon was going to come 40 years from 1914.
We were doing a lot of counting back then.
So this sister writes to Brother Noah and says,
why are you spending all this money on building projects when Armageddon could come in 1954?
Well, if we'd listened to her and others like her, where would we be today?
Still back at 124 Columbia Heights.
Speaking about our building programs, Brother Noah once made a very profound statement.
It's simple, but it's profound.
He said, we're going to keep building.
Let Jehovah stop it if he doesn't agree with it.
I think he could do that, couldn't he?
Now, sometimes a body of elders has a lively discussion about some project or initiative.
Maybe it's the need for a new kingdom hall.
And we may have our concerns.
We may have reservations.
We express those.
But if a number of Spirit-directed men are enthusiastically in favor of a project,
it's very possible that Jehovah agrees with it, too.
So we wouldn't want to get in the way.
And we wouldn't want to be a naysayer.
You know, sometimes what happens when we're in a building project?
We have a trouble with permitting.
We can't get the permits.
We need right away.
Or maybe a building inspector comes and he causes a lot of trouble.
And we wouldn't want to be the type of person who says,
well, this project mustn't have Jehovah's blessing because if it had Jehovah's blessing,
everything would go smoothly.
Tell that to Nehemiah and the Jews in his day.
They had no end of trouble.
And yet what they were doing had Jehovah's approval.
The word of God is alive and exerts power.
When Jehovah has a purpose, we see what we can do to advance that purpose.
And if there's nothing we can do, we pray for it.
And then we get out of the way.
It is truly faith strengthening to know that nothing can stop the advancement of Jehovah's purpose
and the many good gifts he has in store for us.
This month's music video gives us something else to look forward to.
Life on a paradise earth.
It's called, it won't be long.
Time keeps on ticking, the year seems to fly.
I'm not getting younger from pain.
I can't hide, but I know.
Oh, it won't be long.
I've lost loved ones at times in my life.
And living without them has been a hard fight.
But I know.
And I will, when the day is clear, my friend, you said.
In this month's program, we learned from Barrick's example
that putting Jehovah's will ahead of our own interests improves our lives and protects us from harm.
We also learned the joy comes from seeking Jehovah's recognition.
How young people can make good decisions when choosing a career.
And how married couples can experience greater peace by working together as a team.
This month's postcard comes from Liberia.
Nestled on the coast of Western Africa, Liberia's terrain includes stunning landscapes.
Sandy Beach is rolling hills and lush rain for us.
English is the official language spoken alongside over 20 indigenous languages.
Liberia, which means the land of the free, was established in 1821 as a safe haven for freed slaves from the United States.
Over 60 years later, the truth began to spread.
And with the help from missionaries, the first congregation was formed in 1948.
From 1989 to 2003, Liberia endured devastating civil wars that affected thousands,
including our brothers and sisters.
Despite the hardship, they stayed positive.
One brother who had to flee his home three times said,
these are the conditions we preach about.
We are living in the last days.
Today, Jehovah's Witnesses in Liberia continue to see excellent results.
For example, the East Ganta congregation with only 103 publishers had an impressive memorial attendance of 964 in 2024.
The brothers had to meet in five different locations to accommodate everyone.
In Robert's sport, local families highly respect the Bible and often gathered to hear the good news.
The Robert sport congregation sends their love and greetings to the worldwide brotherhood.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.